The cervix is the lower, narrow portion of
the uterus that connects with
the top of the vagina.
Most cases of cervical cancer
are caused by human papillomavirus, or HPV.
Of almost 200 strains of HPV,
approximately 30 to 40 types
are sexually transmitted.
Some cause genital warts.
Others called “high-risk” types
can cause cervical cancer.
An HPV virus invades a normal cell.
The virus’s genetic information, or genome,
is released and transported to the
nucleus of the host cell,
where it uses host cell mechanisms to replicate.
In a small group of women,
HPV converts normal cervical cells
into cancerous ones,
which reproduce uncontrollably
and do not die, as normal cells do.
Cervical cancer is usually slow-growing,
and regular Pap tests have greatly
reduced deaths from this cancer.
A new vaccine prevents
many cervical cancers from developing.